# Example analysis using the GSE35626 public dataset
[[!toc levels=4 startlevel=2 ]]

The [GSE35626](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE35626) dataset is a TCRα repertoire analysis of CD8<sup>+</sup> cells, in duplicates.

## Preparation

This example was ran in a [Ubuntu Precise LTS virtual machine](http://alestic.com/) in the [Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud](http://aws.amazon.com/ec2).

### Software installation

Since this is run in a virtual machine that can be erased after use, some steps of the installation are not recommended on local systems.  See the [[README]] for more precise installation instructions.

Update the package repostitory to Quantal.

<pre>
sudo sed -i 's/precise/quantal/g' /etc/apt/sources.list
sudo apt-get update
</pre>

Install the programs needed by *clonotypeR* and for other analysis steps.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install bioperl bwa emboss r-base
</pre>

Install [git](http://git-scm.com), download *clonotypeR*, build the R package and install it. Note that on this cloud instance, the temporary storage area for large files is in `/mnt/`.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install git
sudo install -d /mnt/clonotyper -o ubuntu -g ubuntu
ln -s /mnt/clonotyper .
git clone git://clonotyper.branchable.com/ clonotyper/
R CMD build clonotyper/
sudo R CMD INSTALL clonotypeR_0.1.tar.gz
</pre>

Install the package for the [NCBI SRA toolkit](http://trace.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Traces/sra/sra.cgi?view=software), to convert the sequences downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install sra-toolkit
</pre>

### Data download

The files are larger than gigabytes, so the download and conversion to FASTQ format will take roughly one hour.

<pre>
mkdir clonotyper/GSE35626
cd clonotyper/GSE35626
wget ftp://ftp-trace.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sra/sra-instant/reads/ByStudy/sra/SRP%2FSRP010%2FSRP010815/SRR407172/SRR407172.sra
wget ftp://ftp-trace.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sra/sra-instant/reads/ByStudy/sra/SRP%2FSRP010%2FSRP010815/SRR407173/SRR407173.sra
fastq-dump SRR407172.sra 
fastq-dump SRR407173.sra
</pre>

## Data analysis

### In shell

<pre>
../scripts/clonotypeR detect SRR407172.fastq
../scripts/clonotypeR detect SRR407173.fastq
../scripts/clonotypeR extract SRR407172
../scripts/clonotypeR extract SRR407173

cat clonotypes/*tsv > clonotypes.tsv

R
</pre>

This prepares a large (3.2 Gb) [[table of clonotypes|html_doc/data-clonotypes.html]], and starts R.

### In R

<pre>
library(clonotypeR)
clonotypes <- read_clonotypes('clonotypes.tsv')
a <- clonotype_table(from=clonotypes, feat=c("V","J"))
colSums(a > 0)
# SRR407172 SRR407173 
#     3653      3677 
</pre>

3,653 V–J pairs were detected in SRR407172.
