Reference sequences
===================

The references sequences are TRA@.gb, TRB@.gb and TRG@.gb, from GenBank.  The
*V*, *(D)*, *J* and *C* segments were extracted with the command `make gb2fa`,
wich uses the the [extractfeat][] program of the EMBOSS package. 

This directory contains *V* and *J* segments aligned on conserved motifs in the
files [[V.fa]] and [[J.fa]].  These alignments were made by hand using [SeaView][] and
may need to be revised when the reference sequences change.

[SeaView]:	http://pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/software/seaview	"multiplatform, graphical user interface for multiple sequence alignment and molecular phylogeny."
[extractfeat]:	http://emboss.open-bio.org/wiki/Appdoc:Extractfeat	"extractfeat documentation on the EMBOSS wiki".

The files [[V-C.fa]], [[V_after_C.fa]], [[J-FGxG.fa]], [[J_before_FGxG.fa]] are
derived from the manually edited files [[V.fa]] and [[J.fa]] described above,
by removing everything after or before their conserved motif, followed by
degapping with `make degap`.

A BWA index is provided for the *V* segments trunkated after the conserved
cysteine, in the `V` directory, and can be refreshed with the command `make
bwa-index`.  It is used by the command `clonotypeR detect`.


Redundant sequences
-------------------

Some *V* segments have identical sequences.  This is incompatible with
*clonotypeR*'s detection strategy, based on *mapping qualities*.

[Mapping qualities](http://maq.sourceforge.net/qual.shtml#mapQ) are an
estimation of the probability that a genomic alignment is incorrect.  If two
*V* segments are identical, a read can align to both with equal probability,
and therefore the mapping quality will be low, in the sense that it is
impossible to know precisely from which *V* segment the RNA was transcribed.
*ClonotypeR* uses mapping quality scores to distinguish between closely related
*V* segments, and by default discards reads where the mapping quality is too
low.  Therefore, redundant references sequences were removed from the `V.fa`
alignment.

Removed redundant *V* segments are recorded in the file [[V.removed]] and were
detected with the command ` export SEQ_LIST=$(infoseq V.fa -filter -only -usa
-noheading) ; for SEQ1 in $SEQ_LIST ; do for SEQ2 in $SEQ_LIST ; do if ! [
$SEQ1 = $SEQ2 ]; then needle --filter $SEQ1 $SEQ2 2> /dev/null | grep -B10
'100.0' ; fi; done; done`.  Note that with some PCR designs, more *V* segments
appear identical.  You may need to correct `V.fa` and `V.removed`  accordingly,
or turn off the use of mapping qualities in the `R` command `clonotype.table`.

