% CLONOTYPER(1) clonotypeR User Manual

# NAME

clonotyper - Quantitative analysis of antigen receptor sequences

# SYNOPSIS

clonotypeR convert file1.sff file2.sff ...

clonotypeR detect  file1.fastq file2.fastq ...

clonotypeR extract file1.bam file2.bam ...

# DESCRIPTION

## clonotypeR convert

## clonotypeR detect

## clonotypeR extract

# OPTIONS

*ClonotypeR*'s options are passed as environment variables.

## AS_CUTOFF=${AS_CUTOFF-170}

Cut-off for the alignment score, given by the `AS` field set by BWA.  This
score depends on the length of the alignment so this value may need adjustment
for different primer designes.  The lowset scores may correspond to reads with
many sequencing errors, in which case it may be difficult to discriminate
between very similar V segments.  Errors at that step can be rescued at the
CDR3 extraction step (see VS_MISMATCH), if the V segments differ in the last 20
bases before the conserved cysteine.

Default: 170

## CLONOTYPER_REFERENCE

Default: /etc/clonotyper/references

## CLONOTYPER_SCRIPTS

Path to *clonotypeR*'s accessory scripts.

Default: /usr/share/clonotyper

## CLONOTYPES

Path to the directory where the clonotypes are to be extracted.

Default: `./clonotypes`

## DEBUG

Save intermediate files (`vectorstrip` output) for troubleshooting.

Default: unset

## EXTRACT_DIR

Path to the BAM and temporary files.  Default: `./extraction_files`

## MAPQ_CUTOFF

Cutoff for the mapping quality, as reported by BWA.  A value of 0 indicates
that it is not possible to discriminate between at least two V segments.

Default: 1

## TMPDIR

Use the directory indicated by `TMPDIR` to store temporary files.

## THREADS

Number of threads for the alignment 

## VS_MISMATCH

Percentage of mismatches tolerated when detecting the boundaries of the CDR3 region.  The alignment is made with 20 base pairs.

Default: 0

# FILES

# LICENSE

Public domain: http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/

# SEE ALSO

ClonotypeR's home page: http://clonotyper.branchable.com/
