clonotypeR's workflow
=====================

This workflow summarises the different commands to run.  Step-by-step examples using [[test data|doc/examples/with_test_data]] or the [[examples/GSE35626]] public dataset are also available for a more detailed explanation.

Data preparation in the command line
------------------------------------

[[Convert|FASTQ]] sequencer ouptut files from Sanger or 454 sequencers.  Single-end Illumina sequence output can be used directly.  Paired-end sequences need to be merged.

*ClonotypeR* is ran in two steps.

 - `clonotypeR detect` compares the sequences to a [[reference|references/README]] database of *V* segments.

 - `clonotypeR extract` searches for *J* segments in sequences where a *V* segment was found, extracts the *CDR3s* and reports the results in a table ready to be loaded in R.

See the [[manual page|clonotyper]] of `clonotypeR` for more details.


Data analysis in R
------------------

The R package can be loaded with the following command.

<pre>
library(clonotypeR)
</pre>

The file produced by `clonotypeR extract` is loaded by the [[`read_clonotypes()`|html_doc/read_clonotypes.html]].  Expression tables are calculated by the [[`clonotype_table()`|html_doc/clonotype_table.html]].  These tables are the basis for the analysis, to compare clonotype profiles, cluster the samples, calculate overlaps, etc.

[[!img gallery/histogram.png link="gallery" alt="Alignment score histogram" size=150x150 ]]
[[!img gallery/powerlaw.png link="gallery" alt="Scale-free distribution of the data"  size=150x150 ]]
[[!img gallery/clustering.png link="gallery" alt="Similar libraries group together" size=150x150 ]]
[[!img gallery/DGE.png link="gallery" alt="Differential clonotype expression analysis" size=150x150 ]]

See the [[list of functions|html_doc/00Index.html]] for more information.
